---
layout: post
title: Music
modified: 2018-12-16
description: An overview of my music tastes.
author: brian
seo.type: BlogPosting
excerpt: For years, I have tried to describe the style of music I listen to. This post is an attempt at doing that.
---

For years, I have tried to describe the style of music I listen to. This post is an attempt at doing that.

To most people, I probably would not describe my tastes in music as "normal." A quick description I tell people is that if it has a guitar in it, I probably do not listen to it. I find a statement like that is easier to say than getting into the intricacies of my tastes in Electronic, Trap, and Hip-Hop/Rap music. I will attempt to get into those details and reflect on the music I listen to.

This post gets nuanced, so if you do not read the whole thing, no worries! I do suggest at least checking out the [Remixes](#remixes) section, as I think it is more important than most of what I have to say about my personal interests in this post.

## Origins

Way back when I was a kid, I remember listening to some tapes with my dad. He played an album of a band that used focused more on the drums than I had heard before. Seemingly, from that point on, I had always focused on the drums or beat of a song. I think a lot of that is due to the fact that I liked Hip-Hop beats, but was not really exposed to them in a great amount until fourth grade (2003-2004).

In fourth grade, a couple of days a week, I went to another elementary school after school until my parents came and picked me up. The bus driver on this other route would play the local Hip-Hop and Pop station. Oh man was I exposed to a lot of music that year. Some notable songs I first heard then are from a few from Sean Paul's album "Dutty Rock", "In da Club" by 50 Cent, "Hey Ya!" by Outkast, and the infamous "Yeah!" by Usher.

In junior high, I listened to a lot of Weird Al and small independent musicians from the Newgrounds Audio Portal. In high school (2008-2012), I started exploring more and listened to a lot of electronic music artists like Bassnectar, Pendulum, Pretty Lights, Basshunter, Skrillex, Klaypex, as well as Hip-Hop/Rap like Eminem and The Lonely Island.

## Genres

From a high level, I would say I listen to the following genres:

1. Hip-Hop/Rap
2. Trap
3. EDM (Electronic Dance Music)

These three genres can all blend together in very interesting ways. I will mostly focus on Trap music, as I feel that is the genre I listen to the most.

### Hip-Hop/Rap

I definitely like Hip-Hop/Rap that is more of a Trap music style. I generally listen to songs that are produced in certain styles over blanketly listening to certain artists. Some albums are mostly produces by one producer, but other albums have a mix of several producers. Some producers that I follow are DJ Mustard and Mike Will Made-It, among others. Some artists that I listen to include Kid Ink, Rae Sremmurd, Cardi B, Nicki Minaj, 2 Chainz, Travis Scott, The Weeknd, Migos, Quavo, and Iggy Azalea.

### Trap

Trap music really means two genres, [Trap music](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Trap_music) and [Trap music (EDM)](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Trap_music_(EDM)). EDM Trap spun out of the non-electronic form, which stems from southern hip-hop. EDM trap is a relatively new genre, starting in 2012. I first discovered it in early 2013 through, what I call the meme that changed my life, the [Harlem Shake meme](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Harlem_Shake_(meme)). Starting with Baauer and Harlem Shake, I quickly started following related artists on Soundcloud and bought the All Trap Music Vol. 1 album.

<figure>
  <iframe allow="autoplay *; encrypted-media *;" frameborder="0" height="450" style="width:100%;max-width:660px;overflow:hidden;background:transparent;" sandbox="allow-forms allow-popups allow-same-origin allow-scripts allow-storage-access-by-user-activation allow-top-navigation-by-user-activation" src="https://embed.music.apple.com/us/album/all-trap-music/596546230"></iframe>
  <figcaption>All Trap Music Vol. 1 album</figcaption>
</figure>

For the remainder of college and into the year afterward, I heavily used Soundcloud to listen to and discover new music. You can check out my [profile](https://soundcloud.com/bman4789) if you are interested in the artists I follow and songs I have liked or reposted.

EDM Trap music has changed quite a bit since 2012. In the early days, songs were simpler and had a smaller soundscape. Today, EDM Trap can be further broken into several sub-genres, of which, I would put into four rough categories.

1. Hip-Hop
2. Festival/House
3. Future Bass/Chill Trap
4. Hybrid Trap/Dubstep

Hip-Hop is most similar, if not the same, to non-EDM Trap music, and may contain rap verses or not (released as an instrumental). Songs in this sub-genre are often on the more minimal side, with a focus on the beat and without heavy drops or aggressive synthesizers. Festival/House Trap may also be called "mainstream" and is easier to dance to. Future Bass/Chill Trap are more mellow and have softer beats and a more laid back feeling. Hybrid Trap/Dubstep is the hardest sub-genre of Trap music. Much like Hip-Hop and Trap music, the difference between heavy or Hybrid Trap music and Dubstep can be hard to differentiate, and there is no clear boundary.

I listen to a variety of artists from all sub-genres. Lately, I have been slowly beginning to listen to heavier Trap, probably some sort of a mix of Festival Trap and Hybrid Trap. That being said, I am definitely not a big fan of Dubstep, so even I am a little surprised at my new-ish liking towards some harder Trap music.

<figure>
  <iframe allow="autoplay *; encrypted-media *;" frameborder="0" height="450" style="width:100%;max-width:660px;overflow:hidden;background:transparent;" sandbox="allow-forms allow-popups allow-same-origin allow-scripts allow-storage-access-by-user-activation allow-top-navigation-by-user-activation" src="https://embed.music.apple.com/us/playlist/hard-trap/pl.u-dN5rZFMMMEey"></iframe>
  <figcaption>My Hard Trap playlist</figcaption>
</figure>

### EDM

#### Mainstream

#### Melbourne Bounce

Melbourne Bounce is a pretty specific sub-genre of EDM that I have yet to meet someone who likes it as much as I do (if you love this, please reach out :smile:). I heard a Will Sparks song or remix several years ago, and have been looking for more ever since. Other notable artists that I listen to in this genre are Deorro, Joel Fletcher, Ger3to, and Ortal Israel. This genre is defined by an upbeat bass, a fast tempo, and Electro-House and Trance influences.

<figure>
  <iframe allow="autoplay *; encrypted-media *;" frameborder="0" height="450" style="width:100%;max-width:660px;overflow:hidden;background:transparent;" sandbox="allow-forms allow-popups allow-same-origin allow-scripts allow-storage-access-by-user-activation allow-top-navigation-by-user-activation" src="https://embed.music.apple.com/us/playlist/bounce/pl.u-dNrA0CMMMEey"></iframe>
  <figcaption>My Bounce playlist (there are more songs in this playlist, but not all are on Apple Music)</figcaption>
</figure>

## Lyrics

A lot of the music I listen to is light on lyrics, if it has any at all. Even with lyrics, I do not actively listen to the words. There are songs I have listened to hundreds of times that I could not sing along to. That being said, I do really value lyrics in songs. They add an irreplaceable "voice" (ha!) and natural sound to a song. The rhythm, melody, and tone of a voice is more important to me than the language that the singer/lyricist is conveying.

I listen to many Danish (as well as other languages such as a little French, Swedish, and Norwegian) artists. Unless I am trying really hard (and even then my Danish is not even close to being good enough), I usually do not have more than a general idea about what the rapper (most of the Danish music I listen to is rap) is talking about. If I am really liking a song, I will look up and read the lyrics, and often run them through Google Translate as well.

### Vocal Effects

While not necessarily lyrics (but they can be), I love some good vocal effects. Whether the lyrics are processed with distortion or reverb, or heavily chopped to the point that they are no longer words, vocal effects are a effective way of applying a human sound into a song and giving it a unique and organic sound.

A few weeks ago, I was listening to music, as I do, and thought, "Nothing says 'Saturday morning' like some electro-pop with vocal effects." Here is a prime example (toward the end of the preview):

<figure>
  <iframe allow="autoplay *; encrypted-media *;" frameborder="0" height="150" style="width:100%;max-width:660px;overflow:hidden;background:transparent;" sandbox="allow-forms allow-popups allow-same-origin allow-scripts allow-storage-access-by-user-activation allow-top-navigation-by-user-activation" src="https://embed.music.apple.com/us/album/dont-you-know/1337351889?i=1337352088"></iframe>
  <figcaption>Don't You Know by Neovaii</figcaption>
</figure>

## Remixes

If you have not spent any time listening to or searching for remixes, I highly recommend you watch Kirby Ferguson's fantastic series, [Everything is a Remix](https://vimeo.com/139094998). I also suggest you look up some of your favorite songs, particularity if they are Hip-Hop or Electronic, on [Who Sampled](https://www.whosampled.com), which shows songs that sample from other songs (and vice versa). The amount of sampling/remixing in "original" songs may surprise you.

I have shifted most of my music discovery to Apple Music and Spotify these days, so I unfortunately do not listen to as many remixes as I used to. Soundcloud is a great place for independent artists to upload and share their original and remix songs. Because there does not _need_ to be a music label involved for legal approval, I have found that there are more remixes on Soundcloud than anywhere else. Roughly 7.5% (over 1,200 songs) of the music in my iTunes library are remixes. Some of my favorite songs are remixes, and especially when I heavily used Soundcloud, I would often hear the latest popular songs first as a remix.

<figure>
  <iframe width="100%" height="450" scrolling="no" frameborder="no" allow="autoplay" src="https://w.soundcloud.com/player/?url=https%3A//api.soundcloud.com/playlists/689843388&color=%23ff5500&auto_play=false&hide_related=false&show_comments=true&show_user=true&show_reposts=false&show_teaser=true"></iframe>
  <figcaption>Remix playlist on Soundcloud</figcaption>
</figure>

## Shows/Concerts

As a preface, not long after I started going to Electronic music shows I purchased a pair of ear plugs and have worn them the entire time for every show. Protect your ears, enjoy music for a lifetime :ear:

I have attended countless shows at The Loft in downtown Minneapolis (as well as a couple of other venues), where many artists I listen to have come and played sets. I enjoy going to these shows because I am there to see the artist or two who are headlining, but also the local producers and DJs who play before them, as well as the lights and have a space to dance to music! Some of the more memorable shows I've been to include artists like CloZee, Alexander Lewis, UZ, Stööki Sound, TroyBoi, GTA, QUIX, Droeloe, KRANE, Ekali, Pendulum, and The Glitch Mob.
